the Israeli defense forces spokesman lieutenant
general Jonathan conricus.
Colonel, I appreciate your time again, obviously
in these early hours of the morning for you.
You heard that man there, you know, asking
the question about his family who are dead.
What did they do to deserve this?
What is your reaction, colonel, to these accusations
that you hear that the strikes on the jabalia
refugee camp are hitting civilians and amount
to a massacre by the idf?
>> Hi, Erin.
Sad images, really, at the human level when
I watch it and I detach myself from the reality
that we are facing, I see sad events and I
see people suffering, and that is not something
that we intend to.
What I could say to that man without even
a drop of cynicism is you should've evacuated,
you and your family, you shouldn't have been
there.
That doesn't mean that we wanted to kill anybody,
it just means that when we warned Palestinians
two weeks ago to evacuate that
[7:10:29 PM]
two weeks ago to evacuate that specific area
because there was going to be major combat
operations, they should've heeded the warning
and they should have left.
The sad reality that is unfolding now is that
the civilians in gaza are paying the price
for the atrocities of hamas.
We are fighting a battle here to defend ourselves.
We cannot allow a situation for hamas to continue
to exist after the atrocities of October 7th,
and in order for us to be able to safeguard
ourselves, we have to eradicate hamas wherever
they are, even if they're hiding in tunnels
underneath populated areas.
>> Colonel conricus, to the point about wanting
them to leave, these are 100,000 people in
a refugee camp.
By definition, they lack resources.
Where were people like that supposed to go?
Was it even reasonable to tell them to go?
They don't have anything to begin with.
>> No, no, that is unfortunately not accurate
at all.
I'd like to explain why.
If you look at the footage that
[7:11:29 PM]
If you look at the footage that you're showing,
you don't see tents.
This isn't some makeshift refugee camp.
These are permanent dwellings of Palestinians
living in a palestinian-controlled area under
Palestinian rule.
These aren't refugees no more than my grandparents
are refugees who came from Poland and Morocco
in 1948.
This is the time scope that we are talking
about.
These aren't refugees, and it's not a refugee
camp any more than half of the population
in modern Israel are refugees or the expulsion
from Arab countries in 1948.
So --
>> Colonel, I understand your point about
permanence.
I'm sure king Abdullah would say the same
about refugee camps of Syria and Egypt and
Jordan.
But, while I understand the point you're making
about the permanency of the residents, they
are poor.
They can't leave --
>> Erin, yes, they could, they could.
They made a decision.
The fact that they made the wrong decision
does not make them a target.
That is not what I'm saying.
I am saying that we warned
[7:12:29 PM]
I am saying that we warned ahead.
Everybody in jabalia knows the same guy who
was holding the page listing the unfortunate
death in his family, I feel for him.
But he knows that hamas is there.
He knows that the place is full of what they
call resistance.
All of them know it.
And they know that there will be fighting
there.
And they know that the safest place for them
to be is not there.
It's in the south.
>> So let me ask you a question about, though,
how you know what you're striking.
Because I know you put out a statement today,
the idf did, at least, colonel, regarding
the second strike in 24 hours in jabalia camp.
And a quote it is that based on precise intelligence,
idf fighter jets struck hamas command and
control complex in jabalia.
Colonel, of course, we all know Israeli intelligence
failed in the leadup to the hamas terror attack
on October 7th.
How do you know that Israeli intelligence
is right now?
>> Erin, I think you asked the same question
three weeks ago,
[7:13:31 PM]
same question three weeks ago, and I think
I will provide the same answer that I'm saying
now.
We are basing our military operations of intelligence.
We continue to monitor their communications.
We continue to listen and see what they're
doing.
We issue information, not claims, but we issue
names, faces, and positions of dead hamas
commanders and key operatives.
We do that because we do still have excellent
intelligence, very granular intelligence of
what they are doing of their whereabouts.
Granted, I cannot argue with what you said
the first part.
Yes, we failed on October 7th, clearly.
And that needs to be investigated.
But definitely that does not imply that our
intelligence is wrong on the contrary.
We continue working based on that intelligence,
and we generate more intelligence.
Our ground troops are there in friction with
the enemy.
Every encounter when we meet the enemy, we
defeat them, even if we have casualties and
then we generate more and more targeting